.TH USYNC 1 "2024-12-27" "usync" "Usync Manual"
.SH NAME
usync \- push/pull changes from remote host

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBusync\fR <\fIcommand\fR> [\fIoption\fR...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBusync\fR is an \fBrsync\fR wrapper configured by a basic yaml file.
\fBusync\fR searches the current and parent directories for a file named
\fI.usync\fR. The directory containing \fI.usync\fR is taken as the  base
working directory while the contents of \fI.usync\fR define a remote rsync
host.
.P
usync forms an rsync command to push/pull the contents of the base working
directory to/from the remote host:
.P
    \fBrsync -aRzz \fR[\fB--delete\fR] [\fB--exclude \fR<\fIpattern\fR>]... <\fIsource\fR>... <\fIdestination\fR>
.P
Command line options override config file options.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBinit\fR
Create a new \fI.usync\fR file in current directory.
.TP
\fBpull\fR
Pull changes from remote rsync host.
.TP
\fBpush\fR
Push changes to remote rsync host.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR <\fIfile\fR>
Set config file basename. (default: \fI.usync\fR)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dir\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>
Set remote rsync directory.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR <\fIpattern\fR>
Add exclude pattern, clear patterns if blank.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR <\fIport\fR>
Set remote rsync port number.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-remote\fR <\fIurl\fR>
Set remote rsync url. May be an ssh alias.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Add source path, clear paths if blank.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR <\fIport\fR>
Set remote rsync user.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR, \fB\-\-dryrun\fR
Perform dry run making no changes.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-nocolor\fR
Disable colored output.
.TP
\fB\-N, \-\-nodelete\fR
Don't use rsync \fB--delete\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Print nothing to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more verbose information.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help text.

.SH CONFIGURATION
\fBusync\fR is configured by a yaml file \fI.usync\fR that defines a remote
rsync host and directory. This file must be present to \fBpush\fR or \fBpull\fR
from a remote host.
.P
A valid \fI.usync\fR file has the following keys:
.TP
\fBdelete\fR
Use rsync \fB--delete\fR option. (default: true)
.TP
\fBexclude\fR
List of patterns to exclude via rsync \fB--exclude\fR option. See \fBFILTER
RULES\fR section of rsync manual for details and syntax. (default: unset)
.TP
\fBport\fR
Remote ssh port. (default: unset)
.TP
\fBremote\fR
Remote rsync url. May be an ssh alias. (required)
.TP
\fBremote_dir\fR
Remote rsync directory. Must be a full path. (required)
.TP
\fBuser\fR
Remote ssh user. (default: unset)

.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBusync\fR is affected by the following environment variables:
.TP
\fBNO_COLOR\fR
Disable colored output.
.TP
\fBQUIET\fR
Run silently.
.TP
\fBVERBOSE\fR
Run verbosely.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
\fBrsync\fR and \fBssh\fR
